HirShi and KanShi &ndash; the hĩrin'shi syllabary and {hanzi/kanji} adaptation
=================

HirShi is a sophisticated ideographic system developed since
pre-Hearth's Warming times by hĩrin studying and copying one another's
qatei'yoshi for bureaucratic and magical purposes. Evolutionarily,
this in turn influenced the design of future generations' qatei'yoshi
in a positive-feedback loop, as they manifested according to hnym
expectations of a HirShi-legible emblem emboying one's qatei.

Unfortunately, the limited isekai bandwidth and transmission time
prevents me from {transcribing/synchronizing/subcreating} a complete
school-curriculum set of HirShi for Standard Hĩrin'rin. Computer
support for the resulting writing-system would also be nonexistent.
Human enthusiasts are also unlikely to invest the time to memorize a
full set of Quaehĩrrh'HirShi, an analogous time-expenditure to
studying the Joyou kanji!

I am therefore limiting myself to recording some initial lessons to
explain the principles of HirShi, then pivoting to design the
{KanShi}, an Earth-oriented ideographic system that uses the Earth
{hanzi/kanji} tradition. The ancient hanzi are derived from 'oracle
bone' script, a set of symbols for ritual divination, so the
evolutionary analogies are striking.

(Another potential source for KanShi is the rich vocabulary of
emoji-like symbols enshrined in Unicode, e.g. '☑♽'. Although these are
close in spirit to the native graphic design of HirShi, the mismatched
aesthetics of Unicode symbols in modern fonts bias me towards limiting
their use outside of ritual-magic demos.

To piggyback on the efforts of anime enthusiasts studying Japanese, I
will be biasing my choices towards {hanzi/kanji} shared between China
and Japan and taught within early Joyou grades and/or early lessons of
[Heisig's *Remembering the Kanji*][heisig].

[heisig]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Remembering_the_Kanji

One of my goals is to leave plenty of room open for human enthusiasts
to introduce additional KanShi+readings and share them with the world.
Pull requests welcome! The design collaboration can only assist
cultural exchange, as the Quaehĩrrh'hĩrin nobility of KinTaiLo{rm/n}
are far more likely to respect the intellectual abilities of humans
who answer HirShi with their own ideographic tradition, and engage
with them as equals. Humans who tediously grind a Standard Hĩrin'rin
curriculum in the hopes of being accepted will, I fear, be regarded as
a vassal-race.

{In short: if you want to have tea as equals with Fancy Pants, in any
HiE or reincarnational future, you will need to bring your own high
culture to impress him. Fancy Pants, already an avid reader of PG
Wodehouse and Eastern Orthodox spiritual literature, fully endorses my
opinion and reminds me to tell readers that it is not the blind
copying of ancient traditions that makes a dynamic high culture, but
the successful refinement of crude and popular new ideas into subtle
and nuanced expressions unachievable by the common masses. Fancy Pants
is very open to being impressed by humanity. He is already excellent
friends with the swans, and regards them as spiritual equals, which...
I still don't quite understand, even now. The swans on Quaehĩrrh don't
even talk.}

Why even bother with an ideographic writing system for Earth exchange?
The [KinSyl syllabary](KinSyl.md) is already sufficient for engaging with
Quaehĩrrh culture on an aultum level, which closely corresponds to
humanity's current soulsong and state of neurological development.

However, as a hĩrin cultural rebel against the close-minded 'nobility'
of KinTaiLorm, I admire the overweening aspiration that comes with
proper humaning, and I do not want the humans to 'know their place in
the order of things'. I am happy to grant the humans additional
insight into the linguistic complexity of hĩrin'mĩm, and the ambiguous
readings inherent in {Hir/Kan}Shi form the best school for hĩrin'mĩm
that I can provide. The curly-bracket-slash {notation/slang} can only
do so much to convey the naturally-branching double-edged nature of
the hĩrin {political/philosophical/} thought-process.

Moreover, a basic understanding of HirShi is essential to comprehend
the overall philosophy of hnym names, and how they can be gradually
adjusted after major life-events to ensure retrocausal nominal
determinism.
